change fastmode to fastscan in dev-guide (#9937)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md

---
title: FastScan
summary: Introduces a way to speed up the querying of OLAP scenarios by using FastScan.
---

# FastScan

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is still an experimental feature. 
> The form and usage of related experimental features may change in subsequent versions.

This document describes how to use FastScan to speed up queries in Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) scenarios.

By default, TiFlash guarantees the precision of query results and data consistency. With the feature FastScan, TiFlash provides more efficient query performance, but does not guarantee the accuracy of query results and data consistency.

Some OLAP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can enable FastScan for the corresponding table for querying.

> The FastScan takes effect globally only for those tables who enables FastScan by [ALTER TABLE SET TIFLASH MODE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode.md). TiFlash-related operations are not supported for temporary tables, in-memory tables, system tables, and tables with non-utf-8 characters in the column names, and therefore enabling FastScan is not supported for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FastScan takes effect globally only for those tables for which you enable FastScan by running [ALTER TABLE SET TIFLASH MODE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode.md). TiFlash-related operations are not supported for temporary tables, in-memory tables, system tables, and tables with non-utf-8 characters in the column names, and therefore enabling FastScan is not supported for them.
```

> The FastScan takes effect globally only for those tables for which you enable FastScan by running [ALTER TABLE SET TIFLASH MODE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode.md). TiFlash-related operations are not supported for temporary tables, in-memory tables, system tables, and tables with non-utf-8 characters in the column names, and therefore enabling FastScan is not supported for them.

Reviewer: 删掉了

```sql
SELECT table_mode FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica WHERE table_name = 'table_name' AND table_schema = 'database_name'
```

Use the following statement to enable FastScan for the corresponding table.

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name SET TIFLASH MODE FAST
```

Once enabled, subsequent queries in TiFlash will use the function of FastScan.

You can disable FastScan using the following statement.

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name SET TIFLASH MODE NORMAL
```

## Mechanism of FastScan

The data in the storage layer of TiFlash is stored in two layers: Delta layer and Stable layer.

The overall TableScan algorithm process in Normal Mode consists of the following steps:

1. Read data: separate data streams are created in the Delta layer and Stable layer to read the respective data.
2. Sort Merge: the data streams created in Step 1 are sorted and merged, and the data is returned in (handle, version) order.
3. Range Filter: according to the data range, filter the data generated in Step 2, and then return the data.
4. MVCC + Column Filter: filter the data generated in step 3 through MVCC. Meanwhile, filter out the unneeded columns, and then return the data.

> FastScan gains faster query performance by sacrificing some data consistency. The FastScan omits Step 2 and the MVCC part in Step 4 in the normal scan process, thus improving query performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FastScan gains faster query speed by sacrificing some data consistency. Step 2 and the MVCC part in step 4 in the normal scan process are omitted in FastScan, thus improving query performance.
```
